
For the Pizza Dough:

1 1/2 cups warm water (110°F/43°C)
2 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast (1 packet)
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
For the Pizza Sauce:

1 can (14 ounces) crushed tomatoes
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
Salt and pepper to taste
For the Toppings:

1 1/2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
Your choice of toppings (pepperoni, mushrooms, bell peppers, onions, olives, etc.)
Fresh basil leaves for garnish (optional)
Instructions:

For the Pizza Dough:

In a small bowl, combine warm water, yeast, and sugar. Let it sit for about 5-10 minutes until it becomes frothy.

In a large mixing bowl, combine flour and salt. Make a well in the center.

Pour the yeast mixture and olive oil into the well. Stir until a dough forms.

Knead the dough on a lightly floured surface for about 5 minutes until it's smooth and elastic.

Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with a damp cloth or plastic wrap, and let it rise in a warm place for about 1-2 hours or until it doubles in size.

For the Pizza Sauce:

In a saucepan, heat a little olive oil over medium heat.

Add minced garlic and sauté for about 1 minute until fragrant.

Add the crushed tomatoes, dried oregano, dried basil, salt, and pepper. Simmer for 15-20 minutes until the sauce thickens. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed.

Assembling and Baking the Pizza:

Preheat your oven to 475°F (245°C) and place a pizza stone or an inverted baking sheet on the center rack.

Punch down the risen dough and divide it in half. Roll out each half into a 12-inch circle on a floured surface.

Carefully transfer one rolled-out dough onto a piece of parchment paper.

Spread a thin layer of the pizza sauce over the dough, leaving a small border for the crust.

Sprinkle half of the shredded mozzarella cheese over the sauce.

Add your choice of toppings. Don't overload the pizza; less is often more when it comes to toppings.

Slide the parchment paper with the pizza onto the preheated pizza stone or baking sheet in the oven.

Bake for about 10-12 minutes or until the crust is golden and the cheese is bubbly and slightly browned.

Remove the pizza from the oven, and if desired, garnish with fresh basil leaves.

Repeat the process with the second dough ball if you're making two pizzas.

Slice and enjoy your homemade awesome pizza!

Feel free to customize this recipe with your favorite ingredients and get creative with your pizza toppings. Enjoy!




